------------------------------------------------

"Following this, unipolar pulses are found when the amplitude
of the filtered waveform raises above twice the measured noise RMS value."

How is the noise RMS value measured?  Once per run (pedestal) or once per event?
Does the (Or can the) signal contribute in any way to the RMS value?

"The start and end
points of the pulse are xed at -50 and +100 ticks, respectively, in relation to the tick at which
the pulse is triggered."

Different track angles (or different delta-counter tracks) will have different pulse widths in theory,
yet you use the same width for all track angles.  It might be worth a sentence here to remind your reader
that the difference in pulse width for EW tracks that do not cross the wire planes is small, or that the 
largest pulse with for the EW tracks that do not cross the wire planes is smaller than this window?

"The THB algorithm was developed to purify the hits collection output of the BHF."

Was THB defined somewhere before this?  The sentence as written implies that it was already defined.

"The track angles with respect to the anode plane
are also estimated by using the 3D line which connects the triggered muon counters."

Change to "which connects the centers of the triggered muon counters."

"For example, a reduction of 20% in charge collected, versus total charge liberated in an
interaction, for a drift of 2 m and electric eld of 500 V/cm is expected for an electron lifetime of
20 ms [8]."

I get 94% not 80% of the total collectable charge arrives at the wire planes, for a 20 ms lifetime, 
a 2 m drift, and a drift velocity of 1.6 m/ms, using equation 1. Please check.

Looking at figure 2, using data from the 2 thin pink bands seems absurd - there is no reason for the reader to 
consider the possibility that the data available for each one is not proportional to the width (the 
elapsed time).  Please add a sentence that explains what fraction of the tracks in your final sample comes 
from each band (and thus why it's worth combining data from different time periods and running conditions.)

"For this data set, the decay of hit dQ=dx in the TPC is shown in gure 3, yielding an
observed electron lifetime of 4.53  0.10 (stat.) ms (systematic uncertainties and corrections to
this measurement are made in section 2.2). Here, a fiducial cut of 50% of the full drift time is
imposed to reduce bias due to incorrectly determined MPV for longer drift hits (explanation in
section 2.1.4). Possible causes of bias in this measurement and explanation of the systematic
uncertainties are described below."

Figure 3 - did you include the first point (smallest drift time) in your fit?  If yes, why does the fit not 
extend that far in the plot?  If no, then make your sentence about the 50% fiducial volume cut accurate.
Maybe 5-50% or 0.05m to 1.00m in drift distance?  And of course explain why you discarded that point.

Figure 5 - I assume that these are for a specific drift distance?  State which one in the text and 
put it on the plot as well. 

Figure 6 - what is the kink in the red curve?  You have to comment on that in the text.

Figure 7 - love it.

Figure 8 - Can you add a second figure that shows the distribution of Q_MC for the sample?  The existing 
figure is missing this important information if one wants to understand what kind of hit charge resolution
we have for the purity analysis.

Figure 8 - The scatter in the points at 
large Q_MC does not agree with the size of the error bars, leading me to conclude that the error bars
are too small.  We can discuss if needed. 

Figure 10 - Interesting, this is new.  What you may not know is that transverse diffusion causes us to 
get dQ/dx0 wrong (at least in simulation) even with no noise.  So the discussion in 2.1.5 is not perfect,
because you attribute the entire discrepancy to the MCscale factor.  We should talk about this more. 

QUESTION:  Why did the true lifetime change from what it was before (3.5 ms?) to 4.25 ms.  What specific 
thing made the difference?

STATEMENT: We are in a much different situation now that the correction is small, the other systematic
considerations are no longer negligible.

I think that you need to do a space charge correction now as well, and a second systematic uncertainty.
In other words, quote tau = 4.13+/-0.24(stat)+/0.28(syst)+/-0.12(syst)

We also need to check the size of the transverse diffusion correction, it may need to be called out 
separately. 



 
